
____

What is a Package?
- A package is a folder that allows you to structure your application.
- A package is a structured folder that allows us to organise our code.


How to Create Packages.
i. A package should live under src folder.

ii. You should always have a root package. Eg <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">com.amigoscode</span> 

iii. Ussually the naming convention of the package is the organisation domain. Eg com.amos, com.jamilla, com.allex, <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">com.yourbrandname</span> .

iv. To add nested package we use a dot.
Example : We want to add a package, that has a class that performs email validation.
ie : <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">com.amigocode.email</span> 

v. The prefix of a unique package is always written in all lower-case letters and should be one of the <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">top level domain names</span>, currently <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">com</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">edu</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">gov</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">mil</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">net</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">org</span>.

vi. Or the prefix should be one of the english two letter codes, Identifying countries.

vii. Subsequent components of the package may vary according to an organisations own internal naming convetions.
Such convetions might specify that a certain directory name components be <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">divison</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">department</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">project</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">machine</span>, or <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">login names</span> .
Examples : com.sun.eng
                 : com.apple.quicktime.v2
                 : edu.cmu.cs.bovik.cheese


#### Understandig Java Built in Packages

Example : 
When we go to the Java Documentation On classes. docs.oracle.com

i. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">java.lang</span>.<span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">String</span> : Means that the String Class is found in the Package java.lang

ii. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">java.sql</span>.Date : We have two Date Classes one lives under the package java.sql and the other under the package java.util
  <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)"> java.util.</span>Date :

iii. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">java.awt</span>.Point : We have earlier used the Point Class, it is found under the package java.awt



Inside intellij, When you click on External libraries. When you Observe.
- All the Classes for general purpose computing live under java package
- Click <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">java.base</span> to see them.

Therefore, Packages is just a collection of folders. They can be customly made during prrogramming or imported from external libraries.



###### How to Use the Classes from Other Packages?

<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Answer</span> :  By importing the Package.

```java
import java.awt.*
```
> The above code means, Importing all the classes from the<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)"> java.awt</span> package.
> Example : The <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Point</span> class is contained in it.


Tip :i.  Click on the class then click Ctrl + B, this open the <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Class file</span> for viewing.
ie : You can view all the code that the point class was created with.

ii. Click on the Circle icon at the top left conner, to locate where the <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Class resides</span> in the Package.
- Also you shall see other related packages.
ie : Other Classes inside the pacakage <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">java.awt</span> are:
    (Color,Polygon,Rectange etc..)


NB : Importing all Classes in a package is a bad practice, because you do not know what you are importing.
ie:
```java
import java.util.*

//Good Practice
import java.util.Arrays;
import java.awt.Point;
import java.awt.Color;
```


#### Remove unused Packages from the code.
Right click, then select optimize imports.
lesson 067


#### Using the classes that have Exact same name.
ie: java.sql.Date
   java.util.Date
   ```java
   import java.util.Date;
   import java.sql.Date;
// Error
   ```
   > The second import wont work. It will Say that Date is already imported.
   
   Now How to use both of them, without conflict?
   <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Answer </span>: Use a fully <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">qualified name </span>for the second Class.
   ie:
   ```java
   Date date = new Date(); //For java.util
   java.sql.Date = new java.sql.Date() //Fully qualified Date for the Second
   
   ```
   > That is how we use different classes that have exactly the same name, but come from different Packages.
   

#### Classes that dont need an import Statement
- Every class that is from tha <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">java.lang </span>package does not need an import statement.
Eg : Math,String

Reason : The lang package is the deafault package in java
