
___

## Overview
- Mainly in Java Programming ,you are going to be having a bunch of classes and then connecting them to each other.
- A class contains properties an behaviours.
- All of the properties in a class should be private.

Some Class concepts.
i. The users are not allowed to access the class properties, they should be accessed using method.
ii. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">this.name</span> : The this keyword always refers to the current instance of the class, ie, the attribute or property in that class.

iii. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">setter Method</span> : Is the method that allows us to set value on the corresponding property of a class.
ie:
```java
public void setName(String name){
  this.name = name;
}
```

iv. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">getterMethod</span> : Is a method that allows you to get a value of a property of a class. Since the property can not be directly accessed as they are private.
ie:
```java
public String getName(){
 return this.name;
}
```

v. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">constuctor</span> : A constructor is a method that is used to instantiate the object of the class.
- The constructor method always has the name same as that of the class.
- The constructor is always public.
- Constructor also allows to pass default values during the instantiation of the object.
ie:
```java
public Cat(String name){
 this.name = name;
}
```

vi. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">default constructor</span> : If you do not create a custom constructor for a class, java give you one by default.
- The default constructor does not accept arguments.
- ie:
```java
public Cat(){
}
```

vii. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">multiple constructors</span> : A class can have multiple constructors that  can be used to instantiate objects.
- Contructor with a default value
```java
public Cat(String name){
 this.name = name;
 this.age = 0; //The default age for constructor that passes name only is 0
}
```


viii. Printing the String Representation of the Class.
- We need to Override the toString method.
ie:
```java
public String toString(){
 return name+" "+age+" "+color;
}

//so in main method,printing the object will print the String representation
sout(objectinstantiated)
```
- It is kind similar toString in arrays.

ix. Reusing the constructor into another constructor.
```java
public Cat(String name,int age){  //Constructor 1
 this.name = name;
 this.age = age;
}

public Cat(String name,int age, String color){  //Constructor 2
 this(name,age); //Reusing constructor 1
 this.color = color;
}

```
- The <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">this keyword</span> can allow you to reuse other constructors.

ix. The <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Object</span> Class is the parent of  all objects.
- There will be methods that even if they are not declared in the class, the class objects will still use them.
- This is because the methods are inherited from the Object Parent Class.
ie:
```java
yourobject.toString();
//To strng may not be in the class created but it works.
```
- All methods including arrays implements the methods of the root class.
- It is the root.

NB : All the <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">Classes</span> that you Create Will have the methods form the object Class by Default



lesson 142