
___

#### Theory

- Automating everything is one of the key of the successful service, product or software in General.
- Github actions makes it happen.

What is Github actions?
- With github actions, you can easily automate workflows to build, test and deploy applications.

- Actions can also assist with code reviews, branch management, and issue management.
- Github actions supports all programming languages.

- During the workflow process, you can see the realtime logs with colors  and icons to easilu understand what is happening.

Security in Github Actions:
- You can use your own secrets in github actions.
- You dont have to store credentials or keys in the workflows but in your private account.
- For public repository is totally <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">FREE</span> .
- You have to pay for <span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">PRIVATE </span>Repositories.

#### Practical
###### First Github Action
- We are creating the github action to interact with users and issues on a repository.

Steps:
i. Select the Project <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Repo</span> on Github.
ii. On github pannel Click <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Actions</span>
iii. Click on New WorkFlow.
- Here, You can choose if you want to start a github action from scratch or from a template.
iv. In this case we shall use a <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Template</span> .
- Scroll down search for a template called <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Greetings</span> under the category <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">Automation</span> .
- This automation greets the user that interacts with the repo for the first time.

v. Click on <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Configure</span> .
- On the new page, you can start to configure your workflow.
- You can configure the name of your workflow.
- All workflows are saved in the folder called <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">github</span>, in the root of the repo.
- This root folder of all workflow of the Github Actions.
- The workflows use the .yam syntax

V. On this github action, there are only two parameters that you can set.
- The message that the user receives when creates the first issue.
- The message that the user receives when creates the first pull request.

V. After setting up the parameters, click on start commit and see the magic happen on the logs.