
___

After changes have been made to a file:

```bash
git commit -m "Comment about the commit"
```


Or:
```bash
git commit
```
- This opens the COMMIT_EDITMSG file in the default text editor, write the full comments about the commit: 
ie: 


###### Best Practices for comitting changes
i. Your commit should not be very large or very small
ii. Commit Often, do not wait a long time before commiting.
iii. You can have almost 5 or 10 commits a day.
iv. If you have two fixes in the app, they should have two different commits.
Eg: One commit for the typo and the other for the bug fix.
v. Make the messages during the commits meaningful.
vi. if you are doing to many things on  one commit, it not wanna be helpful.


###### Skipping the Staging Area
- Here we are just commiting without using the git add .  command
```bash
git commit -am "Fixed the bug that prevented the user from signing in"
```

But, 99% of you time, you should always stage the changes before commiting them to the repository.

###### Deleting a file
- If a file is deleted, this is also a change. It has to be added and comitted.
ie: 
Delete a file.
```bash
rm file2.txt

//The file is deleted in our working directory, but not in the staging area

//List the files in the staging area and see
git ls-files

```

Now put  the changes to the staging area
```bash
git add file2.txt
```

So, we have the change that has to be comitted.
```bash
git commit -m "Removed unused code"
```


NB : Git has a command that does all this in one Go.
- This command removes the file in both the working directory and the staging area.
- This implies that git add is not required after deletion.
```java
git rm file2.txt
```

###### Renaming files in git
- To rename a file in both the working directory and the staging area.
- This means that git add is not required.
```bash
git mv file1.txt main.js

//file1.txt is renamed to main.js
```