
___
#### Overview
- In all projects, we should tell git to Ignore certain files and directories.
- For example, we dont want to include the lock files or the binary files that get generated as the result of compiling our code.
- Adding these files will just increase the size of our repository, without providing any values.

Practical:
i. Create a directory called logs inside or working directory
```bash
mkdir logs
```

ii. Inside a logs directory, create a file called dev.log with the text hello.
```bash
echo hello > logs/dev.log
```

iii. We do not want git to track the directory <span style="color:rgb(255, 148, 148)">logs</span> .To prevent this, we have to create a special file called <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">.gitignore</span> 

iv. The <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">.gitignore</span> file has <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">no name</span>, it just has the<span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)"> extension</span>.And it should be in the <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">root of</span> your project.

v. Add the logs directory to the .gitignore
```bash
echo logs/ > .gitingore
```

vi. Open the file in vscode and see the entries
```bash
code .gitignore
```

vii. In the .gitignore file, we can add as many entries that we want to be ignored by git.
ie:
```bash
logs/    //Here the folder logs/ is ignores ie not tracked
main.log   //The file main.log wont be tracked
*.log      //All files with that pattern wont be tracked
```
- Save the changes.

vii. Add the file to the staging area.
```bash
git add .gitignore
```

viii. Commit the changes.
```bash
git commit -m "Added gitignore"
```

NB : Git ignore works only if you have <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">not included the file into the repository.</span> If the file is already pushed into the remote repository git ignore wont work.


###### If We accidentally commited a file to out repositoy
Practical
i. Create a folder called bin
```bash
mkdir bin
```

ii. Add a file called app.bin inside it
```bash
echo hello > bin/app.bin
```

iii. Add and commit the changes (<span style="color:rgb(255, 148, 148)">Lets say it was accidental</span>).
- The problem is that every time we compile our code the bin is changed. So we have to change it and then commit it.
Solution : Add the <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">bin/</span> directory to <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">.gitignore</span> 

iv. Stage and commit the changes
```bash
git add .

git commit -m "Included the bin/ into git ignore"
```

v. But, The bin/ directory is still tracked, since we had already staged and commited it accidentally.
Prove:
```bash
//Modifiy the file inside bin called app.bin
echo helloworld >> bin/app.bin

//See the tracked
git status   //Still the bin wants to be staged and commited.
```

vi.  <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Solution</span> : Remove the bin/app.bin from the staging area
```bash
//See if it exists there
git ls-files

```

NB : the command `git rm`  removes the file from both the working directory and the staging area.
In this case we do not want this.
We want only the file to be removed from the staging area.

So, use: (--cached) Only removes from the index(staging area)
```bash
git rm -rf --cached  bin/
```
> -rf : removes the folder recursively and forcefully.

vii. Commit the changes.
- So the change about the deleted bin directory has to be committed
ie:
```bash
git commit -m "Removed the bin directory that was accidentally commited"
```

<span style="color:rgb(0, 176, 80)">Generelly</span> : Following these steps, the bin/ directory will <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">just exist in the working directory</span>, but it wont be present in the staging area.

###### Remainder.
- Got to github.com/github/gitignore. You shall see the different git ignore templates for different programming languages.