
---

Tags: #databaseconnection #mqsli #pdo #mysql
Date: 2025-08-16  
Source: PHP Dani

---

# PHP MySQL Databse Connection  

## **Overview**  
- **Main Idea**: Learn how to connect the PHP system to the mysql RDBMS
- **Why It Matters**: It is important to allow users to create,update,delete and manage contents on the website.

### Steps
1. **Create the Database inside phpmyadmin.**
    - You can import the ready made database or you can create the database from scratch inside phpmyadmin. The database should contain the tables to handle user data.

2. **Create a database handler connection file.**
    - Inside the code base the file containing database connections should be created, it can be named with any convention. Eg: <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">dbh.inc.php</span> - database handler . includes . php | <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">dbconnection.php</span> etc..  

3. **Choose the type of php database connection preffered.**
      i. <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">mysql connection</span> : Very bad type of connection, never use this because it is insecure.
      
      ii. <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">mysqli connection</span> : This stands for mysql improved, this does some extra sql injection prevention.                                          You can use this.
                                          :mysqli is mostly good for mysql databases.
                                          
      iii. <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">PDO connection</span> : PDO stands for PHP Data Object, it is another way of connecting to the database. It is more flexible to many different types of databases. ie: SQLite, MongoDB etc..

## **Connected Notes
 - [[mysql Database Connection in PHP]]
 - [[mysqli Database Connection in PHP]]
 - [[1.1 PDO Database Connection in PHP]]
## **Questions & Gaps**  
- (Unclear areas or follow-up research needed)  
- Learn about mysql connection.
- Learn about msqli connection.

---