#### Data Structures and Algorithms Analysis Exam - CP 213

THE UNIVERSITY OF DODOMA  
**COLLEGE OF INFORMATICS AND VIRTUAL EDUCATION**  
**SCHOOL OF INFORMATICS**  

**UNDERGRADUATE UNIVERSITY EXAMINATIONS**  
**SECOND SEMESTER 2017/2018**  

**CS 122: DATA STRUCTURES AND ALGORITHMS**  

**Date:** 04th July, 2018  
**Time Allocated:** 3 Hours  

---

## Instructions:  
1. This question paper consists of six questions.  
2. Attempt THREE (3) questions, question ONE (1) is compulsory.  
3. All University of Dodoma examination regulations apply.  

---

### Question One (Compulsory)  
Consider any business of your choice (banking, pharmacy, retail shop, etc.). Choose one of its undertaking and:  

(a) Define a data structure pertinent to such undertaking. [5 Marks]
(b) Create nodes/objects from the definition in (a). [5 Marks]  
(c) Using loop approach generate and feed data in at least ten nodes of the structure. [5 Marks]  
(d) Using dynamic approach generate and link the nodes that you have formed in (c). [5 Marks]  
(e) Create a stack of at least ten of the nodes that you have created in (c). [5 Marks]  
(f) Create a Binary tree of at least four branches of the nodes you have created in (c). [5 Marks]  
(g) Discuss computing functionalities where linked list concept is applied. [10 Marks]  
(h) Using structure definition example, show how trees are different from queues. [5 Marks]  
(i) Using structure definition example show how stacks are similar to queues. [5 Marks]  

(j) Given set \( B = (5, 8, 46, -98, 46, 67, -5, 36, -89, 0, 345, 45.88, 4.87) \)  
   i. Using bubble sort algorithm sort these values in ascending order. [5 Marks]  
   ii. Using quick-sort algorithm sort these values in descending order. [5 Marks]  

---

### Question Two  
a. Using arrays approach show the implementation of queues using C++. [5 Marks]  
b. Using dynamic approach show the implementation of queues using C++. [5 Marks]  
c. Discuss computing functionalities where queue concept is applied. [10 Marks]  

---

### Question Three  
a. With examples show the implementation of stacks using C++. [10 Marks]  
b. Discuss some examples of computing where stack concept is applied. [10 Marks]  

---

### Question Four  
a. Show how Binary trees are generated: sequentially and by looping. [5 Marks Each]  
b. Using examples demonstrate the various algorithms for traversing binary-trees. [10 Marks]  

---

### Question Five  
Given set A = {23, 56, -7, 6, 0, 75, 2.7, -3.6, 8, -4.77, 43, 678}  
And set B = {5, 8, 46, -98, 46}  

a. Using Merge sort approach, sort the numbers in set A and B jointly. [10 Marks]  
b. Using RAM diagrams, show the values of parameters that are passed between the partition() function and sort() function. [10 Marks]  

---

### Question Six  
a. Using quick sort approach, sort the numbers in set A and B given in question 5 jointly. [10 Marks]  
b. Show the values of parameters that are passed between the partition() function and sort() function. [10 Marks]  

---

**END OF EXAMINATION**