
#### Object Oriented Programming Exam - CP 215

THE UNIVERSITY OF DODOMA  
**COLLEGE OF INFORMATICS AND VIRTUAL EDUCATION**  
**SCHOOL OF INFORMATICS**

**UNDERGRADUATE UNIVERSITY EXAMINATIONS**  
**FIRST SEMESTER 2013/2014**

**CS 213: OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING IN JAVA**

**Date:** February, 2014  
**Time Allocated:** 3 Hours

**Instructions:**  
1. This question paper consists of six (6) questions.  
2. Answer Question One and any other four questions making a total of five questions answered.  
3. All University of Dodoma examination regulations apply.

---

### Question One

a) Java is said to be simple, facilitates faster application development, scalable and platform independent. Briefly explain those four concepts.
*(8 marks)*

b) There are many Java technologies, mention any three technologies providing their long forms.
*(3 marks)*

c) Differentiate a class from an object. Is it possible for an object to access class variables and methods? Briefly explain.
*(2 marks + 2 marks + 5 marks)*

---
### Question Two

Write java programs that illustrate concepts of encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism.
*(5 marks + 5 marks + 10 marks)*

---

### Question Three

Write java program(s) that illustrate concepts and usage of instance variables, instance methods, class variables and class methods.
*(5 marks + 5 marks + 5 marks + 5 marks)*

---

### Question Four

a) Briefly describe the mechanism of exception handling.
*(4 marks)*

b) Write a skeleton program that illustrates exception handling technique.
*(6 marks)*

c) From (b) above, one could spot a finally block of code. What is that block for?
*(3 marks)*

d) Write a program that could potentially throw any type of known exceptions.
*(7 marks)*

---

### Question Five

a) What is an Applet?
*(2 marks)*

b) Describe the Applet Life Cycle from the moment it loads in a web browser to the point it is terminated.
*(8 marks)*

c) Write a simple Applet class and a corresponding HTML code that displays this string "I am in a UE" 40 pixel positions from the left and 25 pixel positions from the top. The containing boundary should have dimensions of 50 in height and 100 in width.
*(5 marks + 3 marks)*

d) State the two ways how the applet can be executed.
*(2 marks)*

---

### Question Six

a) How can any datatype be converted into a String?
*(2 marks)*

b) What are Type Wrapper Classes?
*(2 marks)*

c) Write a program that accepts a double value using a Scanner class and converts it into a String.
*(8 marks)*

d) Write a program that accepts String datum from the command line and converts that datum into an Integer datum.
*(8 marks)*

**[Hint: Use mechanism of exception handling where necessary]**

---

**END OF EXAMINATION PAPER**