
#### Linux/Unix Systems Exam - CP 211

THE UNIVERSITY OF DODOMA  
**COLLEGE OF INFORMATICS AND VIRTUAL EDUCATION**  
**SCHOOL OF INFORMATICS**  

**UNDERGRADUATE UNIVERSITY EXAMINATIONS**  
**FIRST SEMESTER 2017/2018**  

**CS 214: Linux/Unix System Administration and Management**  

**Date:** 27<sup>th</sup> February, 2018  
**Duration:** 3 Hours  

---

## Instructions:

1. This paper consists of **six questions** each carrying **20 marks**.  
2. Answer **all questions from section "A"** and **any two from section "B"**.  
3. Whenever possible use examples or diagrams to illustrate your idea.  
4. All University of Dodoma Examinations Regulations Apply.  

---

## SECTION A (60 Marks)

### Question One

**(a) Write short notes on the following:** *(2 Marks Each)*  

i. chmod command  
ii. umask command  
iii. nice and renice command  
iv. wall command  
v. diff and comp command  
vi. df command  

**(b) Differentiate the following terms:** *(2 Marks Each)*  

i. UID and EUID  
ii. chgrp and chown  
iii. etc/passwd and etc/group  
iv. internal and external command  

---

### Question Two

**(a) Describe package management in linux using yum.**  
**(b) Write a command to convert text in file1 from lowercase to upper case and redirect its output to file2.**  
**(c) Write the steps involved when formatting flash drive with FAT 32 file system on command prompt.**  
**(d) Explain the difference between UNIX and LINUX.**  

---

### Question Three

**(a) Explain "user management commands"; describe the files associated with these commands.** *(10 Marks)*  

**(b) After the user "User1" left the company, the command "userdel User1" was issued. This deleted the user "User1". Although this entry was deleted "in /etc/passwd" file it still exist in "/home/User1".**  

i. Explain why? *(2 Marks)*  
ii. As an administrator, in place of the command "userdel user1" Identify what would be the appropriate solution. *(2 Marks)*  

**(c) Your company has implemented a policy that user password must:** *(6 Marks)*  

i. Have at least 9 characters  
ii. User should change password after first login  
iii. Require changing the password after 15 days since last password change  
iv. Require at least 7 days between password change  
v. Start warning the user 2 days before password expiration  

Write a shell script to implement the above given policy.  

---

## SECTION B (40 Marks)

### Question Four

**(a) What is file system?** *(2 Marks)*  
**(b) Explain the EXT file system structure.** *(8 Marks)*  
**(c) You have been asked to setup LVM volume for the Linux group. Your task is to use "/dev/sdb" to create logical volume named "linux_lvm", format it with xfs, and mount under "/linux". Make sure the Linux group owns "/linux" and the volume is mounted in "/etc/fstab" using UUID. List detailed steps and commands to accomplish the above task.** *(5 Marks)*  
**(d) From the scenario in c) above write commands to:** *(1 Mark Each)*  

i. Reduce the size of logical volume and file system by 1GB  
ii. Run the file system check  
iii. Check file system current size and usage  
iv. Deactivate the volume group  
v. Remove PV from VG  

---

### Question Five *(10 Marks Each)*

**(a) Explain the booting and shutting down mechanism for a linux system.**  
**(b) Write a script that determines which 10 home directories are the largest on the system. Schedule the script to run every Monday night at 12:00 a.m and have it mail its output to your email "linux.cive@udom.ac.tz".**  

---

### Question Six

**(a) Explain in detail the dd command uses in the linux system.** *(10 Marks)*  
**(b) Write commands to:** *(1 Mark Each)*  

i. Find all files which have been accessed within the last 30 days  
ii. Display disk usage in kilobytes  
iii. List the files in current directory including hidden files, and sort them by size  

**(c) Explain the output of the commands in "i" through "vii" when issued:** *(1 Marks Each)*  

i. `(date; ps —ef | awk '{print $1}' | sort | uniq | wc –1 ) >> activity.log`  
ii. `tar – cC /old . | tar – xC /new`  
iii. `awk –F : '$3 == 0 {print $0}' /etc/passwd`  
iv. `tee -a Linux.script`  
v. `mount -t cifs – o username=Linux //Linux/myshare /myshare`  
vi. `ls –l 2> /dev/null`  
vii. When `**Linux :: 44:** David, Wilson, Iddy` is added to /etc/group  

---

**END OF EXAMINATION PAPER**