
___

## Outline
- What is an Arraylist .
- Creating Arraylist .
- Learn how we can add,access,change and remove an item inside an arraylist.
- Size of an arraylist.


What is an Arraylist?
Think of an arraylist as a <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">resizable</span> array.
- In case of the arraylist, the size of the arraylist is not fixed. It is dynamic.
- The <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">size</span> of the arraylist can <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">change</span>, depending on the size of the elements inside it.
- We can use an arraylist to <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Store</span> elements, just like we stored elements inside an array.
- An arraylist is an <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Object</span> .

i. Creating an Arraylist.
- We use an arraylist Class
ie:
```java
Arraylist <Interger> numbers;
```
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">Arraylist</span> : The Class arraylist being refered to.
- `<Interger>` : We are specifying the datatype that the elements in the arraylist will be. The wrapper class <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">Interger</span> is being used and not the primitive type.
- <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">numbers</span> : The name of the Arraylist

Then: Instantiating the arraylsit we declared.
```java
numbers = new Arraylist<>();
```
- `Arraylist<>()`: Is the Constuctor of the arraylist class.

We can Declare and Instantiage an arraylist in one Go.
ie:
```java
//Arraylist of intergers
Arraylist<Interger> numbers = new Arraylist<>();

//Array List of Strings
Arraylist<String> fruits = new Arraylist<>();

//Arraylist of Doubles
Arraylist<Double> doubles = new ArrayList<>();
```
- NB : When we are creating the Arraylist, we are <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">not specifying</span> the size of the Arraylist.
- When we add Elements to the Arraylist, the size will grow automatically.

> [!Note] 
> In an Arraylist We can store objects(String,Interger,Boolean,Double,Character..).   Not primitive type (int,boolean, double, char..).



ii. Adding Elements to the Arraylist.
- The Arraylist class has the built in methods.
- One method is the <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">add()</span> method. Using this method, we can add an element to the Arraylist.
ie:
```java
fruits.add("Apple");
fruits.add("Mango");
fruits.add("Banana");

sout(fruits) //The String representation of the Array will be automatically printed.
```
- The add method, adds the element at the End of the arraylist.

iii. Adding the elements a the specific index of the Arraylist.
- The add methd is Overloaded. So specify the index.
```java
fruits.add(6,"Coconut");
//Add the Element at Index 6
```
- The Other elements are pushed foward by one index.


iv. Accessing an Item inside the Arraylist.
- We use the <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">get()</span> method.
- In Arraylists we can not use square brackets just like inregular arrays.
ie:
```java
//Accessing Elements  
System.out.println(fruits.get(0));    //Apple
System.out.println(fruits.get(1));   //Mango
System.out.println(fruits.get(2));    //Banana
```


v. Changing an Element in the Arraylist.
- We want to change the Value at a certain index in the Arraylist, to be equal to another value.
- We use the <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">set() </span>method.
ie:
```java
//Changing the Values of an arraylist  
fruits.set(0,"Coconut");  
fruits.set(2,"Pineapple");
```


vi. Removing an item from the Arratlist
- We use the <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">remove()</span> method of the Arraylist.
a. Remove element by index:
```java
//Remove by index  
fruits.remove(1);
```

b. Remove element by value.
- The equals method is used . Enter just the string to remove. Then the remove method knows how to use the equal method.
- It will Iterate throught the array and find the value that is equal to the string given and the delete it.
```java
//Remove by Value  
fruits.remove("Mango");
```


vii. Remove all the elements inside the Arraylist.
- Use the <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">clear() </span>method.
```java
//Remove all the Elements  
fruits.clear();  
  
 //Empty arraylist is printed 
System.out.println(fruits);  //[]
```


viii. To get the size of the arraylist
- To get the size of the arraylist we use <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">size()</span> method.
ie:
```java
//Knowing the size of the ArrayList  
System.out.println(fruits.size());  //3
```
- The Size of the arraylist changes, depending on the number of Elements inside it. This is called a dynamic size.

