
___
## 1. Variables.
- Variables are used to store values in our computers memory.
- To store values we need to reserve some space.(Use Variables)
- Each variable has a specific type.
- It is called a variable because its value can change.

<span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Declaration</span> : Refers to allocating some space in our memory by declaring a variable.
ie: 
```java
String fistName;
int age;
String jobName,lastName; //Declaration of multiple variables at once.
```
- A varibale must be declared before it is used.

<span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Assignment </span>: Used to store or put a value inside a variable. We use the assignment(=) operator.
ie:
```java
String firstName = "Amos";
int age = 24;
```
- The above snipped consists of both initialization and assignment.
- Avoid the re-declaration of varibles, it will bring errors.

#### 1. Constants in Java.
What is a constant?
- A constant is a variable whose value can <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">not be changed</span>.
- To define a constant we use a <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">final</span> keyword.
- Constants can be used like any other variables.
- Constant names are written in uppercase and using the snake case convention.
- You will get a syntax error when you try to change the value of the constant.
Initializing a contant.
  <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)"> final TYPE NAME = VALUE;</span> 
  ie: 
  ```java 
  final String COMPANY_NAME = "ZEPSON";
  sout("COMPANY_NAME);
  ```

Benefits of using CONSTANTS.
i. The value of the constant will not be changed by accident. You will get a syntax error whe u try to change the value of the constant.

#### 2.  Identifiers in Java.
What are identifiers.
- Identifiers are names that identify the elements in a programme. Eg: Names of Classes,Names of methods and Names of Variables.

Every Identifier must Obey Some rules:
i. Identifiers can contain letters,digits,underscores(`_`), and a dolar sign(`$`) ie <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">myName1</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">my_Name2</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">myName$</span> .
ii. Must start with a letter,underscore or a dollar sign. It can not start with a digit and it can contain spaces.
iii. An identifier can not be a reserved word. ie <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">main</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">class</span>, <span style="color:rgb(255, 0, 255)">String</span>.
iv. <span style="color:rgb(255, 255, 0)">Case senstivity in java</span>: area, Area, AREA and ARea are four different identifiers.

Tips for writing Identifies in Java
i. Use Clear and Descriptive Names.
- ie: numberOfStudents, userName

ii. Avoid using abbreviations.
 - eg: numStuds, uName

iii. Do not use the dollar sign(`$`) when naming identifiers.